                                 TAS
                           Version 1.0, 7/7/25 7:20pm

Faulkner's The Bear, Part 4:
                          (And he remembered this, he had seen it: an instant, a flash, his mother’s soprano ‘Even my dress!’ 
loud and outraged in the barren unswept hall; a face young and female and even lighter in color than Tomey’s Terrel’s for an instant in a closing door; 
a swirl, a glimpse of the silk gown and the flick and glint of an ear-ring: an apparition rapid and tawdry and illicit yet somehow even to the child, 
the infant still almost, breathless and exciting and evocative; as though, like two limpid and pellucid streams meeting, the child which he still was 
had made serene and absolute and perfect rapport and contact through that glimpsed nameless illicit hybrid female flesh with the boy which had existed 
at that stage of inviolability and immortal adolescence in his uncles for almost sixty years; the dress, the face, the ear-rings gone in that same aghast 
flash and his uncle’s voice: ‘She’s my cook! She’s my new cook! I had to have a cook, didn’t I?’ then the uncle himself, the face alarmed and aghast too 
yet still innocently and somehow even indomitably of a boy, they retreating in their turn now, back to the front gallery, and his uncle again, pained and 
still amazed, in a sort of desperate resurgence if not of courage at least of self-assertion: ‘They’re free now! They’re folks too just like we are!’ 
and his mother: ‘That’s why! That’s why! My mother’s house! Defiled! Defiled! and his uncle: ‘Damn it, Sibbey, at least give her time to pack her grip’: 
then over, finished, the loud uproar and all, himself and Tennie and he remembered Tennie’s inscrutable face at the broken shutterless window of the bare room 
which had once been the parlor while they watched, hurrying down the lane at a stumbling trot, the routed compounder of his uncle’s uxory: the back, 
the nameless face which he had seen only for a moment, the once-hooped dress ballooning and flapping below a man’s overcoat, 
the worn heavy carpet-bag jouncing and banging against her knee, routed and in retreat true enough and in the empty lane solitary young-looking 
and forlorn yet withal still exciting and evocative and wearing still the silken banner captured inside the very citadel of respectability, and unforgettable.)

